.TH xinu\-status 1
.SH NAME
xinu\-status \- list connection servers and current status of connections
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xinu\-status [\-h] [\-b] [\-f] [\-c class] [\-s server] [connection]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xinu\-status
displays information about each console daemon that is running.
Console daemons provide connectivity between frontend
machines and the console terminals of the backend machines.
Information provided includes the machine name the server is running on
and the state of each of the backends connected to the server.  For each
connection the name, class, login name of the user who currently
has the connection reserved, and the time the connection was established
can be displayed.

Options are:
.TP
.BI \-c " class"
Class. Show the machines in class
.I class
on the console server.  The default class is ppc.
The value of
.I class
can also be set using the environment
variable "XINU_CLASS".
.TP
.BI \-s " server"
Server. Uses the hostname or IP address
.I server
to communicate with the backend console terminal server daemon.
(Also called the "xinu-consoled" daemon.)  By default,
\f2xinu-status\f1 will send out a broadcast request for the proper
server on the current subnet.  This parameter should only be set if
selecting between several available servers, or connecting to a server
on another subnet.  The value of
.I server
can also be set using the colon-delimited environment variable
"XINU_SERVERS".
.TP
.BI \-h
Help.  Prints a short usage blurb.
.TP
.BI \-b
Backend only.  Display only information about the backends.
.TP
.BI \-f
Display only information about the console daemons running.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xinu-consoled(1), xinu-console(1)
.SH BUGS
On some systems, network broadcast search for cserver daemons will
fail if the environment variable XINU_SERVERS is set to a broadcast
address, like "128.10.3.255".
.SH "HISTORY"
The exact lineage of
.B xinu-status
is forever lost in the sands of time.
The original concept was borrowed from the LSI-11 utility program
\f2lusers\f1 which, of course, listed users currently using the TTY's.
With the decline of mainframe-based systems,
.B xinu-status
became a network-aware tool capable of allowing users from multiple
front ends to track the connection status of backends hooked to a master
terminal server.
Probable culprits for the original
.B cs-status
are Bob Brown and Doug Comer.
The current version (v2.0) has been dusted off and ported to Linux by
Dennis Brylow and Chris Telfer.
